### State behaviors

If you are simulating a state behavior, you will need to input five further pieces of information.

* First, you will need to specify values for the average __event duration__ (sometimes called __duration per occurrence__) and the average __interim time__ (sometimes called __inter-response time__) of the behavior during the baseline phase (i.e., before beginning treatment). Do this by inputting values into the second and third boxes in column one of the simulator. Note that both quantities should be specified in seconds. You might have a sense of these characteristics of the behavior from previous interactions with the participant, or you might need to make rough guesses. (Remember, this is all just a hypothetical exercise, and you can always experiment with different values later.) Taken together, these two quantities determine the average percentage of time that the behavior occurs during the baseline phase. (Specifically, the average percentage duration is equal to the average event duration divided by the sum of the average event duration and the average interim time.)
* Next, you will need to specify how the average event duration and average interim time change as a result of treatment. Do this by inputting the __percentage change in duration__ and __percentage change in interim time__ in the fourth and fifth boxes of column one, respectively. In order to select sensible values here, you will need to think precisely about how you expect the treatment to impact the behavior. For instance, the treatment might increase the length of time in between episodes of problem behavior (a percentage _increase_ in interim time), but when problem behaviors do occur, the length of each episode might be more or less unchanged (a zero percentage change in duration). Alternately, it may be that the treatment actually reduces the length of episodes of problem behavior (a percentage _decrease_ in event duration).
* Finally, the last input box in column one asks you to specify the __immediacy__ of the change in behavior by moving the slider bar to the desired level. Possible values range from 0% to 100%, with 100% corresponding to an immediate change and 0% corresponding to a change that takes an infinitely long time to occur. Within this range, the immediacy corresponds to the percentage of the full change that happens in the first treatment session. For example, suppose that the intervention will eventually produce a 90% decrease in the duration of a behavior. An immediacy of 60% means that the average duration will decrease by 60% X 90% = 54% during the first treatment session. Note that the simulator assumes that the immediacy of the changes is the same for both duration and interim time.
